So really powerful features, those alarms and metrics,
not to mention the logging information from EC2.
But let's change focus for a couple minutes and have a
chat about AWS CloudTrail events.
Module 3 of this course looked at how to integrate CloudTrail with CloudWatch.
In this section, we want to talk a little bit more about CloudWatch Events.
One set of events are API events.
These events are generated by calls to public APIs.
So any time you perform an administrative action,
that registers as an API event.
We've got console sign‑in events.
Console sign events will register any attempt to sign in to the AWS console.
Typically, if you're trying to sign in programmatically,
that'll be registered as an API event.
Console events are a separate category.
We also have service events.
These are events that are not necessarily generated by you or your admin teams.
Instead, they're generated by an AWS service.
So an example of this might be the rotation of KMS key.
KMS key rotation can happen automatically,
and it's an AWS service that triggers that,
not you.
Now when a CloudTrail event is triggered, the events will include an event ID.
Event IDs are typically unique to each event,
but sometimes events will share event IDs. So using KMS as an example,
if I was to create a KMS key, that would generate an event.
As part of my key creation,
if I was to give a colleague in a different AWS account access that key,
that's a second event.
But because they were generated by the same action,
me creating a KMS key, they would share an event ID.
This makes it easy for me to search for a single event ID,
but then see a whole group of actions that were taken
as part of one administrative event.
Whenever a CloudTrail event is registered,
each event will have a user identity field.
This field identifies the entity that was responsible for triggering that event.
This could be a user, a role, or an AWS service.
We can interact with CloudTrail Events through the
CloudTrail dashboard CloudWatch or S3.
Through the CloudTrail Dashboard, we can see 90 days of event activity,
and we can search through and download those events.
By using CloudWatch,
we can configure CloudWatch events or use EventBridge to
trigger a target when we see a specific event.
We can also interact with CloudTrail Events through the use alarms,
metrics, logs, and log insights.
When we configure a CloudTrail to record different types of CloudTrail events,
we can log all that event activity into S3.
S3 provides long‑term archival at scale.
It also supports searching through CloudTrail
Events with features like S3 Select, Amazon Athena,
or third‑party tools that integrate with S3.
Now Globomantics has some requirements for us here.
Globomantics wants to be alerted whenever the AWS root account is use.
They want to be alerted when their EC2 instances are running low on disk space.
They would like to be alerted when KMS keys are created or
deleted. And they would like to be alerted when their deployed
web application is generating 404 errors.
Which of these can CloudTrail help with?
Take a minute, pause the video if you need, and jot down the requirements
that you think CloudTrail can help Globomantics with. Well,
definitely, the use of the root user account and the creation and
deletion of KMS keys, CloudTrail can alert us to.
Each of these actions will generate a CloudTrail event that we can
pick up through the CloudTrail console, CloudWatch, or S3. As for
the disk space and the 404 errors,
well, both of these can be seen if you integrate your EC2 operating
system metrics and its logging with CloudWatch.
But neither of these would generate a CloudTrail event.
Now we've chatted a bit about CloudTrail events, let's jump into a demonstration where we'll look at CloudTrail events and log querying.